With the NFL 2025 NFL playoffs right around the corner, NFL enthusiasts (myself included) are flocking to their favorite websites to see how the QBs heading into the playoffs 
performed this season. Most fans looking to get a sense of how good each quarterback is will refer to ESPN or NFL.com and look at their basic statistics. Although these 
measures are a good starting point, they have many limitations.

One limitation is that these measures of performance are far more meaningful when looked at in conjunction with other critical context. For example, if Sam Darnold threw 
36 touchdowns and Baker Mayfield threw 44 touchdowns, at first glance it wouldappear that Baker had the more impressive season according to this metric. However, if you add 
context about each player's offensive line and find that Sam Darnold's offensive line was ranked far below Baker's, then you would realize there's a strong argument that Sam 
in fact had a more impressive season despite having less touchdowns. 

Another limitation is that many of these statistics reflect a single time point which doesn't tell you the whole story. If Sam Darnold and Bakermayfield both finished with 20 
interceptions but Baker Mayfield had no interceptions in the last 5 weeks and Sam Darnold had 10 in the last five weeks, then the manner in which both QBs got to 20 interceptions
paints two different stories. This would not be discernible unless you were able to measure this metric over time. 

Lastly, many of these statistics are a high level representation of a QB's performance, but many strengths/weaknesses of a player can matereailize when looking at metrics with 
a higher degree of granluarity. For example, many of these websites will provide third down conversion rates which is a good baseline measure of quarterback play in critical 
moments. However, these metrics don't detail what the distance to go was which can drastically alter how you view a player. For example, if Sam Darnold and Baker Mayfield's 3rd 
down conversaion rates were 40% and 35% respectively, you might be tempted to say Sam is better at third down conversions. However, if you could drill down into that statistic
further and see that Sam is really good when its three or fewer yards but his success drops significantly beyond that while Baker maintains aroudn the same rate of conversion 
at different distances, despite having an overall lower conversdion rate, the argument can be made that Baker Mayfield is better on third downs. 

The goal of this project was to create a single source of reporting that would convey far richer insights about the regular season performance of QBs headed to the playoffs than
anything that could be found via a simple Google search. The nflverse package in R has datasets stored in a variety of structures such as one record per play, one record per week, 
one record per player, etc. that allowed me to work around all of the limitations described above. The specific objectives in this project were as follow: 

        1. Aggregate Basic Stats such as Total Tocuhdowns, Interceptions, etc. and derive metrics to contexualize these statistics: Offensive Line Rank, Strength of Schedule, 
           Defensive Rank, Receiving Core Rank
        2. Plot Mean EPA over time and who the opponent that week was
        3. Plot third down conversion rates at different distances
        4. Measure completion percentage when pressured. 

For the purpose of this analysis, I thought these objevtives were very thorough. They ensure that both basic and advanced metrics are used, both logitudinak and cross-sectional 
data are used, and a variety of situations are covered such as clutch moments (third down conversion) or less than perfect conditions (completion percetnage unde pressure). 
